Welcome back.
So as I was previously saying we have the capability to convert plotline into Dasch basically allowing
us to insert what we already know about polygraph objects into a dash dashboard so we're going to be
doing and this lecture is showing you how you can use those dash core components graph and then insert
figures that you already know how to create with normal plot.
So we're going to begin with a simple example of inserting a single plotless scatterplot into the dashboard.
And later on we're going to expand on this idea to answer multiple plots.
But right now in this lecture we'll keep it simple by importing and essentially inserting a plotless
scatterplot into the dash dashboard.
Let's get started.
OK here I am in my basic thought py file.
Let's quickly review what you'll be typically importing.
We want to import dash and then we're also going to be importing that core components so that core components
as DCC.
Remember that's the more abstract component and then we'll also import dash HTL components as HMO.
And we'll be discussing both of these in more detail later on then.
Let's go ahead and import what we already need for graph objects from Poly.
So that's going to be what we already covered in that first section of course on creating graph objects
of plot we total say import poly graph under square object says go.
And in order to make some data for our plot we're going to import some pie as an.
OK.
So let's get started first we're going to want to actually create our application object or variable.
So I'll say app is equal to dash dot dash is capitally there and then let's create some data for this.
So this is just our creating data so we use them PI for this.
I'm going to see that where you get the same random data.
I do.
So I'll choose the number 42 for this particular example.
And this creates some random x data all say random x is equal to the random And let's get some random
integers.
So say ran integers from 1 to 100 let's grab 100 of those and we're going to copy and paste this line
to create a similar thing for y.
So we get our imports.
We created the ash objects and now we are going to have a set of random x values and a set of random
y values.
So a hundred of each the random integers that's going to allow us to plot this.
So how do we actually now create a plot the graph inside or dashed dashboard.
Well first we're going to call app lay out as we did earlier and then we call HVM l div..
Open and close parentheses.
And basically what this says is everything that we're going to be inserting belongs into this div for
the T.M. and then inside of this div we start creating a list and inside of this is going to go DCC
dot and we're going to call the graph component here.
So this graph component is what's actually going to accept the plot figure.
So we give this an ID parameter so the ID can just be something like scatterplot.
And this is just a string that you decide whatever you want to call it the ID will see later on how
we can use that as a reference.
And then we'll go ahead and Krajina that line here.
We're going to say figure is equal to and this is where our dictionary is going to go.
And inside of this dictionary we're going to have two very familiar objects.
We're going to have a data key and then we're also going to have a lay out key and this is where you
can use the knowledge that you just attain with partly in your actual dash dashboard.
So here data the value this key is going to have is basically going to be that entire list that we normally
passed in with data for normal plot.
So that means we create a list here and then we say go that scatter.
And you're basically back to basics things you already know.
So for scatterplot we know how to create this.
We know we just need to say.
And let me go ahead and put this on a new line.
So it's a little more readable.
Something to keep in mind is that these braces and brackets that tend to be a lot more dash and plot
line.
So you're going have to be careful in keeping track of this if you ever get an error such as end of
line error or unexpected in the station.
Go ahead and copy and paste from our notes directly.
It's really easy to make a typo here but hopefully furling along.
Just keep an awareness of that.
So inside of go that scatter we're going to do an x call so we'll say x is equal to that random x value.
Then we're also going to say Y is equal to that random y value and then for scatterplot we say mode
is equal to marker's So that's our data list.
Hopefully that feels really familiar to you given all the practice you have politely.
So that's the value.
This list right here that's the value that goes with that data key in this dictionary that's inside
of that figure parameter which is that inside of this graph.
Call and this figures ID is scatterplot or whatever you happen to call this string.
Then the next step is to provide the layout and the layout is just going to be go that way.
And this is whatever you usually provide for the layout of your normal partly plot.
So here Elisha's go ahead and give this a title will say title is equal to my scatterplot.
So that's the very basics of inserting a normal plot leape plot into your layout for your dash dashboard.
So again here all the imports we create are a dash app created some random data and this is basically
where the key happens.
We say app that layout is equal to and inside of an HMO div we created a list here then we create a
dash core component for the graph.
We give this particular graph an ID so that we can reference it later on if need be.
And then the key one here is this figure.
So figure itself is going to be a dictionary with two keys here.
Data and layout and the values for data and layout inside of this figure dictionary.
That's the exact stuff we were using before with Plumley and hopefully now you can see that this is
a much easier approach than what we were doing before with kind of following along with the dash documentation.
I believe personally that if you already know plotless Well you're going to be able to really leverage
that understanding of that knowledge.
If you follow this approach using Dasch core components and using this figure dictionary approach.
So this is where we differ a little bit from the documentation but hopefully it makes life a lot easier
and more importantly gets you up and running of dashboards a lot faster.
So now that we created our app layout the next thing to do is just at the very end we're going to say
if name is equal to main We're going to run our server open and close princes.
So let's actually run this and make sure it works.
So I'm going to say Python and I just called this basic Bajpai going to hit enter and then I'm going
to go to my browser to this location or here's let me copy this.
Remember be careful control c otherwise you'll quit.
So copy and let's go check it out.
OK.
Putting that address in our browser renders our actual dashboard.
And right now our dashboard is really simple it's just scatterplot inside of the Stiv.
So there we have it.
Those are the random points and it looks like everything's working as suspected.
Let's go head and see how we can expand on this dashboard.
All right.
Here we are back at the text editor.
What I want to do now is add in a couple more parameters to show you how we can further affect this
figure.
And it should be stuff that feels familiar to you since you've already done this with basic plots.
Again all we're doing here is after creating the data we create this layout an insight as to meld that
live.
We have this list which contains this dash core component graph object takes in an ID and then takes
in a figure and this figure parameter is a dictionary with a data key and a lay out key.
And that takes in what you're already familiar with that data list and then that layout parameter.
So just like we did with a normal scatterplot completely what we can do is after mode provide something
like a marker dictionary and then here we're going to say size.
Let's go ahead and kind of play around with this we can give it a size we can give them colors.
So let's go ahead and give it in our G-B color.
This is just a string code for red green blue values.
So you can play around with this and I'm just kind of choosing some values here from the notes and comma
here.
Let's go ahead and give it kind of a wacky symbol maybe Pentagon like we've seen before and I'll shoot
one more.
Maybe you want to add in a line here.
So if we wanted a particular line for these points that can take in another dictionary of parameters
so you can see here.
It can get complicated quite quickly.
So just keep that in mind and give that with two.
All right.
So that so we can adjust stuff with the markers.
And is always Leah can also take in more arguments so it can take in maybe not just for the basic title.
You want to title your x axis as well.
That's no problem you just say x axis is equal to and here you pass and a dictionary of title and then
you know some x title.
OK so let's get a bird's eye view of this.
Real quick.
Remember we just do our imports create the dash create the layout have this div that takes on a list
inside of that list.
We have this graph.
We give it an ID then we create the figure parameter which is a dictionary with that data key takes
in that list we're familiar with.
Again you could just copy and paste this from all the other plot like we've done before as well as really
how you can insert that from again all the poly we've done before.
So let's go ahead and rerun Python basic but PI and check it out.
Whoops looks like my error I forgot to say.
X axis.
I just said access here.
So really isn't to make a typo here.
Make sure you are careful that Title X axis and I'll try this again.
Python's basic potpie will hit enter and hopefully that fixes the issue.
Looks like it's running.
Let's go to the browser.
OK there we go.
We see Dash's running and we can see the different changes we did.
So here we have Pentagons we have those lines that with around the Pentagon you can kind of see a black
line there.
We did some x title.
You could have also said Y-axis pass on the title there and you can also affect things like the hover
mode and all those other options you can pass and to lay out as well as that scatterplot call.
All right.
The last thing I want to show you the I can think of more as a preview than actually officially part
of this lesson is how you can put multiple plot plots on this dashboard.
So let's go ahead and insert a scatterplot right below this one.
We can even duplicate it if we want but something I want to make clear.
Think of this more as a preview than an actual official discussion on the lecture because later on we're
going to dive in a lot more detail on having multiple components inside of your dashboard.
So let's exit this and go back to our text editor.
All right.
The last thing I want to show you is how we can insert multiple graph objects into our dashboard so
to do this.
I've zoomed out a bit because essentially I'm going to be copying pasting are scatterplot twice.
So what happens here is recall that we have this H2 melded.
And inside of that div. it's taking in a list.
And right now this list only has one really large graph object.
And in fact we could define this graph object outside of this and then insert it as some variable name.
But what it going to do and pay really close attention here to what I'm copying.
I'm going to copy from this square bracket.
Zoom in here just a little bit from this square bracket.
I'm not including it just starting there.
I'm going to copy the Telegraph object up to that square bracket right there.
So essentially I'm just grabbing everything that's in that first item of the list.
I'm going to copy this.
So let's copy that control See command see and then right after that I'm going to just paste it as the
second item in that list of the div.
So again all we're doing here is remember that's HTL div.
It had a list of a single graph object.
I just went ahead and then inserted the graph object.
What I want to make sure to do now is give this another ID name scatterplot to the way the ashes get
confused.
And let's just go ahead and make this a little bit different.
So we can get an idea.
So I'm going to set the read value to something higher so let's give it to 200 and let's get the green
is something lower like 53 and we'll go ahead and say this is my scatterplot second plot.
OK so that should be enough to get an idea that this is a different plot.
Again all we did is we copy and pasted this graph and duplicated it.
So now it's a relative list has to graph items in it.
If you're getting any errors here just be really cautious with your copy and paste thing because it's
super easy.
So you get a mix up.
So just keep that in mind.
I want to run this on basic pie.
Enter Alice check it out.
OK it looks like it's running so I copy that correctly.
So I'm going to head over to my browser and see what the two plots look like.
You know I dashboard and now here I am in my dashboard and I get to see now these two graph objects
contained inside that single div..
So I have one single ASML here and it's containing two graph objects that we can kind of play around
with.
Later on we're going to see how we can connect different objects specially if things like drop down
menu sliders all that fun stuff.
But that's the very basics of creating a simple dashboard especially when I want to focus on here is
that you can just take everything you learned about flatly and easily insert it using that graph that
core component so keep that in mind.
OK.
Coming up next we're going to focus a little more on HTL components graph components and mark that components
separately and then we'll set you loose on an exercise where you can create your first simple dashboard.
Thank you so much.
And we'll see you at the next lecture.